[ADD] Quality: Quality alerts doc (#7224)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/inventory_and_mrp/quality/quality_management/quality_alerts.rst

==============
Quality alerts
==============

.. _quality/quality_management/quality-alerts:
.. |MO| replace:: :abbr:`MO (Manufacturing Order)`

In the Odoo *Quality* app, *quality alerts* are used to notify quality teams of product defects or
other issues. Quality alerts can be created from a manufacturing or inventory order, from a work
order in the *Shop Floor* module, or directly within the *Quality* app.

Create quality alert
====================

> There are four ways to create a new quality alert:

Author: I've rewritten the intro so that it doesn't use the number four. I don't think it's necessary to number the list itself since the items could appear in any order.

  :guilabel:`Quality Alert` button at the top of the order to open a quality alert form in a new
  page.

  .. important::
     This method can only be used if a quality check has been requested for the inventory order. The
     :guilabel:`Quality Alert` button will not appear otherwise. If the button does not appear, a
     quality alert can also be created by clicking the :guilabel:`⚙️ (gear)` icon at the top of the
     page and selecting the :guilabel:`Quality Alert` option from the resulting menu.

- Open the :menuselection:`Shop Floor` module, and then select a work center from the navigation bar
  at the top of the page. Then, click the :guilabel:`⋮ (three vertical dots)` button at the
  bottom-right of a work order card to open the :guilabel:`What do you want to do?` menu. Select the
  :guilabel:`Create a Quality Alert` option from this menu to open a quality alert in a pop-up
  window.

.. note::
   Depending on how a new quality alert form is opened, certain fields on the form may already be
   filled in. For example, if a quality alert is created from a work order card in the *Shop Floor*
   module, the :guilabel:`Product` and :guilabel:`Work Center` are pre-filled.

> After opening a new quality alert form, fill it out as follows:
> 
> - Enter a short :guilabel:`Title` that summarizes the issue with the product.
> - If the quality alert is referencing a specific product or product variant, select it from the
>   :guilabel:`Product` or :guilabel:`Product Variant` drop-down menus.
> - If the product issue was discovered at a specific work center, select it from the :guilabel:`Work
>   Center` drop-down menu.
> - If the product is included in a specific picking order, select it from the :guilabel:`Picking`
>   drop-down menu.
> - In the :guilabel:`Team` field, select the quality team that is responsible for managing the
>   quality alert.
> - If a specific employee should be responsible for the quality alert, select them from the
>   :guilabel:`Responsible` drop-down menu.
> - In the :guilabel:`Tags` field, select any tags relevant to the quality alert from the drop-down
>   menu.
> - Use the :guilabel:`Root Cause` field to select the cause of the quality issue, if known.
> - Choose a :guilabel:`Priority` level by selecting a :guilabel:`⭐ (star)` number between one and
>   three. Quality alerts with higher priorities appear at the top of the *Quality Alerts* Kanban board
>   in the *Quality* app.

Reviewer: The block bullet list does little to prioritize the information or prime the reader for the information that they're actually looking for.

Here's a suggested rewrite to present this information in a guided narrative format with conditional statements,  as necessary, to fill out the form. The added heading too helps break up the content from theoretical choices vs. direct action on the form, and support  teams can link directly to it.

Last item: *Quality Alerts* gets a gui (not italics) since it's the name of the dashboard on the UI
```suggestion
Quality alerts form
-------------------
After opening a new quality alert form, begin by giving it a short :guilabel:`Title`` that
summarizes the issue with the product.

Then, if the quality alert is referencing:
- **A specific product or product variant** select it from the :guilabel:`Product` or
  :guilabel:`Product Variant` drop-down menus.
- **A specific work center** select it from the :guilabel:`Work Center` drop-down menu.
- **A specific picking order** select it from the :guilabel:`Picking` drop-down menu.

Next in the :guilabel:`Team` field, select the quality team that is responsible for managing the
quality alert. If a specific employee should be responsible for the quality alert, select them from
the :guilabel:`Responsible` drop-down menu.

In the :guilabel:`Tags` field, select any tags relevant to the quality alert from the drop-down
menu. Also use  the :guilabel:`Root Cause` field to select the cause of the quality issue, if known.

Lastly, choose a :guilabel:`Priority` level by selecting a :guilabel:`⭐ (star)` number between one
and three. Quality alerts with higher priorities appear at the top of the :guilabel:`Quality Alerts`
Kanban board in the *Quality* app.
```

> At the bottom of the quality alert form are four tabs, which can be filled out as follows:

Reviewer: Additional context.
Yes we can see there are four tabs...why though? What do they mean in a general sense before we get into their definitions?
```suggestion
At the bottom of the quality alert form are four tabs which aid in adding supplemental information or actions to be taken for the quality alert. They can be filled out as follows:
```

- In the :guilabel:`Description` tab, enter a description of the quality issue.
- If any actions should be taken to fix the affected product, enter them in the
  :guilabel:`Corrective Actions` tab.
- If any actions should be taken to prevent the issue from occurring again, enter them in the

>   :guilabel:`Preventive Actions` tab.

Reviewer: Would reverse the order of these statements.
Start with the label then finish with the definition otherwise we're making people read half of a sentence before figuring out what it's for or what it means.

==============
Quality alerts
==============

.. _quality/quality_management/quality-alerts:
.. |MO| replace:: :abbr:`MO (Manufacturing Order)`

In Odoo *Quality*, *quality alerts* are used to notify quality teams of product defects or other
issues. Quality alerts can be created from a manufacturing or inventory order, from a work order in
the *Shop Floor* module, or directly within the *Quality* app.

Create a quality alert
======================

> There are four ways to create a new quality alert:
> 
> - Navigate to :menuselection:`Quality -->  Quality Control --> Quality Alerts`, and then click

Reviewer 2: Very minor nitpick, feel free to ignore:

Since you said there are four ways, what about numbering these instead of using bullet points?

Also, there's an extra space in the menuselection!
```suggestion
There are four ways to create a new quality alert:

#. Navigate to :menuselection:`Quality --> Quality Control --> Quality Alerts`, and then click
   :guilabel:`New` to open a quality alert form.
```

  :guilabel:`New` to open a quality alert form.
- Navigate to :menuselection:`Manufacturing --> Operations --> Manufacturing Orders`, and then

>   select an |MO|. Click the :guilabel:`Quality Alert` button at the top of the |MO| to open a quality

Reviewer 2: This line goes 1 character over. I would fix it for you, but i dont know if you're using bullet points or numbered lists, so I'll let u handle it (:

   filled in. For example, if a quality alert is created from a work order card in the *Shop Floor*
   module, the :guilabel:`Product` and :guilabel:`Work Center` fields will be pre-filled.

After opening a new quality alert form, fill it out as follows:

- Enter a short :guilabel:`Title` that summarizes the issue with the product.
- If the product issue was discovered at a specific work center, select it from the :guilabel:`Work
  Center` drop-down menu.
- If the product is included in a specific picking order, select it from the :guilabel:`Picking`
  drop-down menu.
- In the :guilabel:`Team` field, select the quality team that is responsible for managing the
  quality alert.
- If a specific employee should be responsible for the quality alert, select them from the
  :guilabel:`Responsible` drop-down menu.
- In the :guilabel:`Tags` field, select any tags relevant to the quality alert from the drop-down
  menu.
- Use the :guilabel:`Root Cause` field to select the cause of the quality issue, if known.
- Choose a :guilabel:`Priority` level by selecting a :guilabel:`⭐ (star)` number between one and

>   three. Quality alerts with higher priorities appear at the top of the *Quality Alerts* Kanban board
>   in the *Quality* app.

Reviewer 2: I don't believe we capitalize kanban, but I'm not super sure. Also, I thought it might be more helpful to describe where the kanban board is using a menuselection. totally up to u tho!
```suggestion
three. Quality alerts with higher priorities appear at the top of the :guilabel:`Quality Alerts`
  kanban in :menuselection:`Quality --> Quality Control --> Quality Alerts`.
```

At the bottom of the quality alert form are four tabs, which can be filled out as follows:

- In the :guilabel:`Description` tab, enter a description of the quality issue.
- If any actions should be taken to fix the affected product, enter them in the
  :guilabel:`Corrective Actions` tab.
- If any actions should be taken to prevent the issue from occurring again, enter them in the
  :guilabel:`Preventive Actions` tab.
- In the :guilabel:`Miscellaneous` tab, select the :guilabel:`Vendor` of the product, specify when

>   the alert was assigned to a quality team in the :guilabel:`Date Assigned` field, and enter an email
>   address that will be CC'd on emails about the quality alert, in the :guilabel:`Email cc` field.

Reviewer 2: The line was just a lil too long (: Also minor thing about cc'd vs cc'ed :joy: I literally had to look this up because i never thought about it before.
![image](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/23611711/5dce7b48-5b12-423b-b054-0916c7a4223b)

```suggestion
  the alert was assigned to a quality team in the :guilabel:`Date Assigned` field, and enter an
  email address that will be cc'ed on emails about the quality alert, in the :guilabel:`Email cc`
  field.
```

.. image:: quality_alerts/alert-form.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A quality alert form that has been filled out.

Manage quality alerts
=====================

To view all existing quality alerts, navigate to :menuselection:`Quality --> Quality Control -->

> Quality Alerts`. By default, alerts are displayed in a Kanban board view, which organizes them into

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Quality Alerts`. By default, alerts are displayed in a kanban board view, which organizes them into
```

different stages based on where they are in the review process.

To move an alert to a different stage, simply drag and drop it on the desired stage. Alternatively,

> select a quality alert to open it, and then click the desired stage above the top-right corner of
> the quality alert form.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
select a quality alert to open it, and then click the desired stage in the top-right corner of the
quality alert form.
```

To create a new alert within a specific stage, click the :guilabel:`+ (plus)` button to the right of
the stage name. In the new alert card that appears below the stage title, enter the
:guilabel:`Title` of the alert, and then click :guilabel:`Add`. To configure the rest of the alert,
select the alert card to open its form.

.. image:: quality_alerts/alert-kanban.png
   :align: center

>    :alt: The Quality Alerts page, displaying alerts in a Kanban view.

Reviewer 2: This is totally up to you, but I feel like this Quality Alerts kanban can be expanded on just a *little* more.

![image](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/23611711/ed15f6f8-c5ea-4cfe-9c12-816c55a74ecb)

Are the "new", "confirmed" "Actions confirmed" stages available by default for all databases? How do users create a new stage?

There's also this new "Automations" option after clicking the gear icon of each stage.
![image](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/23611711/2e32cba7-5206-4d09-a125-74797a74a03c)

The doc is great as is, and my suggestions are to help make this doc accessible to those who've never worked with kanban before. (Though im not sure how many of those there are)

Feel free to ignore! (:

==============
Quality alerts
==============

.. _quality/quality_management/quality-alerts:
.. |MO| replace:: :abbr:`MO (Manufacturing Order)`

> In Odoo *Quality*, *quality alerts* are used to notify quality teams of product defects or other
> issues. Quality alerts can be created from a manufacturing or inventory order, from a work order in
> the *Shop Floor* module, or directly within the *Quality* app.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the Odoo *Quality* application, *quality alerts* are used to notify quality teams of product
defects or other issues. Quality alerts can be created from a manufacturing or inventory order, from
a work order in the *Shop Floor* module, or directly within the *Quality* app.
```

> Create a quality alert
> ======================

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Create quality alerts
=====================
```

There are four ways to create a new quality alert:

- Navigate to :menuselection:`Quality -->  Quality Control --> Quality Alerts`, and then click
  :guilabel:`New` to open a quality alert form.
- Navigate to :menuselection:`Manufacturing --> Operations --> Manufacturing Orders`, and then

>   select an |MO|. Click the :guilabel:`Quality Alert` button at the top of the |MO| to open a
>   quality alert form in a new page.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  select an |MO|. Click the :guilabel:`Quality Alert` button at the top of the |MO| to open a
  quality alert form in a new page.
```
i believe this is where you mentioned that a MO might need to have already completed a quality check... worth looking into...

- Open the :menuselection:`Inventory` app, click the :guilabel:`# To Process` button on an inventory

>   order type card (Receipts, Delivery Orders, etc.), and then select an order. Click the
>   :guilabel:`Quality Alert` button at the top of the order to open a quality alert form in a new
>   page.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  order type card (:guilabel:`Receipts`, :guilabel:`Delivery Orders`, etc.), and then select an
  order. Click the :guilabel:`Quality Alert` button at the top of the order to open a quality alert
  form in a new page.
```
I believe the same issue as above (no Quality Alert button present) is worth a double-check. I'm sure it's something that simple that can be remedied with a sentence or two 👍

- Open the :menuselection:`Shop Floor` module, and then select a work center from the navigation bar
  at the top of the page. Then, click the :guilabel:`⋮ (three vertical dots)` button at the
  bottom-right of a work order card to open the :guilabel:`What do you want to do?` menu. Select the
  :guilabel:`Create a Quality Alert` option from this menu to open a quality alert in a pop-up
  window.

.. note::
   Depending on how a new quality alert form is opened, certain fields on the form may already be
   filled in. For example, if a quality alert is created from a work order card in the *Shop Floor*

>    module, the :guilabel:`Product` and :guilabel:`Work Center` fields will be pre-filled.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   module, the :guilabel:`Product` and :guilabel:`Work Center` fields are already pre-filled.
```

After opening a new quality alert form, fill it out as follows:

> - Enter a short :guilabel:`Title` that summarizes the issue with the product.
> - If the product issue was discovered at a specific work center, select it from the :guilabel:`Work
>   Center` drop-down menu.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Enter a short :guilabel:`Title` that summarizes the issue with the product.
- If it not already auto-populated, fill in the :guilabel:`Product`, :guilabel:`Product Variant`,
  and :guilabel:`Lot` accordingly, if necessary.
- If the product issue was discovered at a specific work center, select it from the :guilabel:`Work
  Center` drop-down menu.
```

Reviewer 3: just added a quick mention about those fields for a more "complete" overview of the form

Author: These aren't the only fields that can auto-populate. I think it's simpler to just have the note.

Reviewer 3: For sure. I totally understand that. However, in your note about some fields auto-populating, you mention the :guilabel:`Work Center' field, and then proceed to explain its use below. That's why I think it may be best to just include all the fields on the Quality Alert form for a full overview. I completely get where you're coming from, but for the sake of docs, I feel like it's always best to explain everything on the screen.

- If the product is included in a specific picking order, select it from the :guilabel:`Picking`
  drop-down menu.
- In the :guilabel:`Team` field, select the quality team that is responsible for managing the
  quality alert.
- If a specific employee should be responsible for the quality alert, select them from the
  :guilabel:`Responsible` drop-down menu.
- In the :guilabel:`Tags` field, select any tags relevant to the quality alert from the drop-down
  menu.
- Use the :guilabel:`Root Cause` field to select the cause of the quality issue, if known.
- Choose a :guilabel:`Priority` level by selecting a :guilabel:`⭐ (star)` number between one and

>   three. Quality alerts with higher priorities appear at the top of the *Quality Alerts* Kanban board
>   in the *Quality* app.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  three. Quality alerts with higher priorities appear at the top of the *Quality Alerts* kanban board
  in the *Quality* app.
```
it's my understanding that we no longer capitalize the "kanban" -- based on the recent Style Guide

Author: I talked to Jess about this, and we should still capitalize it when referring to the board itself.

At the bottom of the quality alert form are four tabs, which can be filled out as follows:

- In the :guilabel:`Description` tab, enter a description of the quality issue.
- If any actions should be taken to fix the affected product, enter them in the
  :guilabel:`Corrective Actions` tab.
- If any actions should be taken to prevent the issue from occurring again, enter them in the
  :guilabel:`Preventive Actions` tab.
- In the :guilabel:`Miscellaneous` tab, select the :guilabel:`Vendor` of the product, specify when
  the alert was assigned to a quality team in the :guilabel:`Date Assigned` field, and enter an

>   email address that will be cc'ed on emails about the quality alert, in the :guilabel:`Email cc`
>   field.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  email address to be cc'ed on emails about the quality alert, in the :guilabel:`Email cc` field.
```
In the current 16.4 runbot I'm using, I'm not seeing the Email cc field...
https://drive.google.com/file/d/19M0LdHnp2ZPhbqNTlOMn5vDAAo1aJO3s/view?usp=sharing

.. image:: quality_alerts/alert-form.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A quality alert form that has been filled out.

Manage quality alerts
=====================

To view all existing quality alerts, navigate to :menuselection:`Quality --> Quality Control -->

> Quality Alerts`. By default, alerts are displayed in a Kanban board view, which organizes them into
> different stages based on where they are in the review process.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Quality Alerts`. By default, alerts are displayed in a kanban board view, which organizes them into
different stages, based on where they currently are in the review process.
```

Author: Same as above.

> To move an alert to a different stage, simply drag and drop it on the desired stage. Alternatively,
> select a quality alert to open it, and then click the desired stage above the top-right corner of
> the quality alert form.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To move an alert to a different stage, simply drag-and-drop it to the desired stage. Alternatively,
select a quality alert to open it, and then click the desired stage above the top-right corner of
the quality alert form.
```

==============
Quality alerts
==============

.. _quality/quality_management/quality-alerts:
.. |MO| replace:: :abbr:`MO (Manufacturing Order)`

In the Odoo *Quality* app, *quality alerts* are used to notify quality teams of product defects or
other issues. Quality alerts can be created from a manufacturing or inventory order, from a work
order in the *Shop Floor* module, or directly within the *Quality* app.

Create quality alert
====================

There are four ways to create a new quality alert:

- Navigate to :menuselection:`Quality -->  Quality Control --> Quality Alerts`, and then click
  :guilabel:`New` to open a quality alert form.
- Navigate to :menuselection:`Manufacturing --> Operations --> Manufacturing Orders`, and then
  select an |MO|. Click the :guilabel:`Quality Alert` button at the top of the |MO| to open a
  quality alert form in a new page. This method can only be used if a quality check has been
  requested for the |MO|. The :guilabel:`Quality Alert` button will not appear otherwise.

> - Open the :menuselection:`Inventory` app, click the :guilabel:`# To Process` button on an inventory
>   order type card (Receipts, Delivery Orders, etc.), and then select an order. Click the
>   :guilabel:`Quality Alert` button at the top of the order to open a quality alert form in a new
>   page. This method can only be used if a quality check has been requested for the inventory order.
>   The :guilabel:`Quality Alert` button will not appear otherwise. If the button does not appear, a
>   quality alert can also be created by clicking the :guilabel:`⚙️ (gear)` icon at the top of the
>   page and selecting the :guilabel:`Quality Alert` option from the resulting menu.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Open the :menuselection:`Inventory` app, click the :guilabel:`# To Process` button on an inventory
  order type card (:guilabel:`Receipts`, :guilabel:`Delivery Orders`, etc.), and then select an
  order. Click the :guilabel:`Quality Alert` button at the top of the order to open a quality alert
  form in a new page.
  
.. important::  
   This method can **only** be used if a quality check has been requested for the inventory order.
   The :guilabel:`Quality Alert` button will **not** appear otherwise.
   
   If the button does not appear, a quality alert can also be created by clicking the :guilabel:`⚙️
   (gear)` icon at the top of the page, and selecting the :guilabel:`Quality Alert` option from the
   resulting menu.
```
added another important admonition for the same reasons mentioned above.

Also, when I attempted to find the Quality Alert options for the gear icon, no such option was available on the 16.4 runbot I used.

And I made sure that Quality Alerts was activated in the MRP app, and still couldn't find it.

I opened Inventory, clicked # to Process on Receipts (per the instructions) and saw the following:
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ik1_RQDybLbhw1AJmxYrwk9m2LPLtAjm/view?usp=sharing

Please double-check the validity of this. Thanks! 👍

  drop-down menu.
- In the :guilabel:`Team` field, select the quality team that is responsible for managing the
  quality alert.
- If a specific employee should be responsible for the quality alert, select them from the
  :guilabel:`Responsible` drop-down menu.
- In the :guilabel:`Tags` field, select any tags relevant to the quality alert from the drop-down
  menu.
- Use the :guilabel:`Root Cause` field to select the cause of the quality issue, if known.
- Choose a :guilabel:`Priority` level by selecting a :guilabel:`⭐ (star)` number between one and
  three. Quality alerts with higher priorities appear at the top of the *Quality Alerts* Kanban board
  in the *Quality* app.

At the bottom of the quality alert form are four tabs, which can be filled out as follows:

- In the :guilabel:`Description` tab, enter a description of the quality issue.
- If any actions should be taken to fix the affected product, enter them in the
  :guilabel:`Corrective Actions` tab.
- If any actions should be taken to prevent the issue from occurring again, enter them in the
  :guilabel:`Preventive Actions` tab.

> - In the :guilabel:`Miscellaneous` tab, select the :guilabel:`Vendor` of the product, and specify
>   when the alert was assigned to a quality team in the :guilabel:`Date Assigned` field.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- In the :guilabel:`Miscellaneous` tab, first, select the :guilabel:`Vendor` of the product. Then,
  if working in a multi-company environment, select the company that should be associated with this
  quality alert. Lastly, specify when the alert was assigned to a quality team in the
  :guilabel:`Date Assigned` field.
```
